>> Speaker 1: How do you know you want to
use a composable versus a util method?
>> Ben Hong: I love it.
You read my mind.
Let's move on to this.
Composable versus Utilities.
So that's exactly it.
So, I think most people,
they see this and they're like, cool,
I'm just going to cram everything in
Composables because it's kind of easy.
It works.
I mean, let's be honest, it does work.
Nothing wrong with that.
However, in the discussion of in case, for
those who are newer to the industry,
what's actually really common in a lot of
enterprise code bases too
is this either utils.
Wait, whoops, wrong folder.
There's usually some sort of
utils folder or utilities.
And so when differentiating between
the two, I would say the key thing here is
that Composables is, if you think about
it, composables is a term originated from
the fact that it's the View Composition
API, meaning that it's using VUE things.
And so oftentimes this means it's
regarding some sort of stateful ui,
whether it's using reactive data with
like refs reactives or lifecycle methods.
On the other hand, utilities are really
like when you think of lodash,
when you think of Moment js.
These are things that have
like generic purpose and
really in some ways are kind of
more that pure function mentality.
They're there for one specific thing,
whether it's like two, uppercase,
whatever, you choose your pick.
Those are usually what I consider more of
the utilities is that they really have
nothing to do with view.
And so in this regard,
you might say, well,
Forma's task status label doesn't
technically have any view things on it.
But what we could say with confidence,
though, is that this particular bit
of like, let's call it a search
algorithm is specific to tasks, right?
And so, unless we could prove that like,
this particular status label is going to
be genericized maybe to a bunch
of other status labels.
Again, let's just assume for
now that this particular logic
is only associated with tasks.
So one could then make the case that
it really probably does belong more so
in the composables.
And I'll give you a hint.
Part of the reason I say this too is that
we mentioned that status is a string here.
But one of the things that's like a hint
to what's coming is that status is not
necessarily just a plain value.
So we'll talk more about that later.
This has to do with composable Design
here, we can see here in this regard,
we have a task list that's
being dropped down.
There's a lot of filtering happening.
So now there's even the question
of business logic, right?
Because Composables doesn't necessarily
equate to business logic, nor
does it necessarily equate to utilities.
And so, David gave a great talk
yesterday and was talking about this.
And I do think when you're thinking
about these three kind of categories,
what a lot of times people do, especially
with Composables, is they kind of stuff
everything together because it feels
like the easiest thing to do, right?
But the problem is you end up with this
kind of tight coupling when it comes
to testing.
Because imagine if you want to
test your business logic, but
it's tied to the fact that you
have to navigate to a page and
then click a button and then do things
that doesn't really make sense.
Your business logic really should
have nothing to do with what's on
the webpage, right?
There should be multiple ways to execute
payment functions, authentication,
whatever unique value proposition
your business offers.
That to me is what David mentioned
is sort of like your pure functions.
You should be able to test those in
a vacuum and they should work every time,
regardless of what the UI is, right?
Utilities.
I would say that what separates logic
from utilities is that utilities aren't
related to your business
like core business, right?
You could replace them with
kind of any generic thing, but
like logic,
because that's what some people do.
They do have a separate folder for logic,
and then that is their pure functions
that resolve, basically targeted
to their business stuff.
One of the struggles with testing is that
you try to test everything, but as we know
as software developers, sometimes you
just don't have the resources to do so.
You might only, and especially if
your tests take a really long time,
you want to test your core functionality.
Separating out your business
logic into like a specific.
Essentially a specific folder makes
it easy to go, you know what?
We're going to trust that the utilities
are working and the composables are fine.
But we must test the business
logic every time.
Because my mentor would say there are only
two tests any company ever needs.
Can the user log in and can they pay us?
Everything else is optional, right?
And so it's a bit tongue in cheek,
but at the end of the day, we are building
things that provide value to users and
we want to make sure there's
a business model behind that.
And so that's kind of like the way I
would see the Three paradigms and again,
adapt it to whatever you and
the team see fit.
Whatever works best for your mental model.
But again, your utilities really do
tend to be those third party libraries,
your lodash, your.
They just very clearly scream like I
do one thing, I do it really well.
And I'm going to sit here in utilities and
then I get brought into composables where
then I start affecting state changes.
Maybe I'm modifying xyz.
That's kind of like the high level of how
I like to think of these three things.
But yeah, does anyone else have like.
We got a question.
>> Speaker 3: So your task list composable
screams business logic to me because it
had nothing view specific.
Do composables give you
access to props and
other things by default if
they're used in a component or?
>> Ben Hong: Nope.
That's the funny thing.
>> Speaker 3: It is
a composable then because it
just sounds like it's a function
you're passing around.
>> Ben Hong: Yeah, it does.
The reason why this ends
up becoming a composable,
at least filter task specifically
is because again, this kind of like
a forecasting into the future, what we're
going to find is that this task list
parameter you're passing in is not
actually always going to be a plain value.
Like this is what
the assumption is right now.
But you actually cannot assume that and
I'll explain why in a little bit.
So what you might do, for example,
is you might abstract the rest
of this filter like this stuff into
a generic like logic function.
But then this I would still make the case
that filter task itself needs to be
a composable because it's going to end up
dealing with reactive state one way or
the other.
But this is what's interesting about that
three paradigm bit is that these internal
bits to our point of search term, this
search term filter, which to correlate for
what people are thinking of is here it
correlates to Did I stop the server?
I think I did.
No, I didn't.
I know what I did.
Okay, What I did was remember filter tasks
at one point had access to all the tasks.
I added a parameter that we
would have to pass it in and
I did not update the filter
task this to take it in.
So, this needs to be passed
the TaskStore tasks.
Now there you go.
This search functionality,
like view, as you can see here,
coming up with these two instances,
honestly, I would make the case again,
we won't do this fully because
we want to cover other things.
But this particular snippet is so generic.
So this might actually be an example of.
In this particular case, I would say
probably just a utility function for
like filter matching or whatnot.
And so it's things like that where you
just slowly start to just keep breaking it
and chunking it as it makes sense.
And then to your point of, like,
actually, all of this stuff can
most likely be genericized too, because
what this stuff is doing, again, for
those who want to dive deep later,
is this combining the.
Basically the selections here.
Yes.
This one doesn't have that many.
All status.
Wait, I have this view on it.
Yeah.
So I can say completed.
So it's basically combining
all the different areas.
Yep.
And then.
Yeah, so again, as we can imagine,
that can probably also be
then genericized as well.
So, we talked a lot about the different,
a lot of the techniques we talked about
earlier regarding generic
components that provide.
You probably would want like a base search
filter, honestly, text that just takes
it in, spits it out, returns back stuff,
and then it just doesn't matter.
It doesn't care what the type is.
In our particular case, it's very
specific to returning tasks right now.
But you can obviously genericize
it to other things too.
Got a question.
>> Speaker 4: I see people
doing useTask and useTask$.
Does it make more sense to do
that than only one composable?
>> Ben Hong: UseTask versus useTask$?
Are you referring to the fact
that it's named Usetask or.
That's what I would need clarification on.
Because this is where naming's tricky too.
People.
I do know people who just
use the plural all the time.
I think it really boils down
to what your team prefers.
Obviously it does not ultimately impact
the code you write at the end of the day.
So just I would say pick a convention and
then choose it.
The follow up was plural for
everything related to a list and
singular for one task.
And they do both.
Okay.
So, there are,
I think the most convention you'll see is
they'll pluralize it when it's a list.
But I think I showed it.
Yeah.
Here I'm a big fan of because that
one off.
Off by one letter is the thing I
found at least when I'm typing.
So task list is just
a little bit more explicit.
And that's really what
arrays are ultimately.
They're a list of things.
So I personally prefer.
Well, particularly with my parameters.
I'm not sure I would,
I guess, to be fair, I'm not sure
I would call this usetasklist,
because that's not necessarily
accurate to what you're doing either.
So if I'm being really verbose,
I might just call it Use Task feature.
That's really what it's associated with.
It really had nothing to do with
whether or not it's plural or singular.
It's just that this is the tasks feature
that we're basically working on.
But, you know, developers don't like to
type, so we like to shorten everything.
So I get it either way.
You know, I say choose whatever you
prefer, it should not do you much harm.